In this project, when you run the code, you will able to use the virtual keyboard using your index finger and thumb . We initialize HandDetector with detection confidence of 0.8 and assign it to the detector. Then we create an array of lists according to the layout of our keyboard and define an empty string to store the typed keys. Initialize the keyboard controller, and define a function with name draw() and it takes two arguments that is an image and the buttonList and return the image. Here Inside the draw() function
Then we define a class called Button() and we give position, text and size as the inputs so that we can arrange the keyboard keys in a well-defined order
Inside the while loop the main function takes place, first we read the real-time input frames and store it in a variable called img. Then we pass that image to the detector.findHands() in order to find the hand in the frame. Then in that image, we need to find the position and bounding box information of that detected hand.
Here we can find the distance between the top point of our index finger and thumb, if the distance between the two is less than a certain threshold, then we can type the letter on which we are indicating. Once we get the position then we loop through the entire position list. From that list, we find button position and button size and then we plot it on the frame according to a well-defined manner.
After that, we need to find the distance between the top point of our index finger and thumb . In the above image, you can see the top points which we require are point 8 and point 4. Hence we need to pass 8, 4 inside a distance finding function in order to get the distance between them. In the above code you can see detector.findDistance() and there we passed 8, 4, and image in order to find the distance and we set the draw flag to false so that we do not need any line between the two points.
If the distance between the points is very less we will use press() function to press the keys. In the above code keyboard.press() and we are passing button.text in order to display that pressed key. And finally, we draw a small white rectangular box just below our keyboard layout in order to display the pressed key.
After you bring the index finger and thumb close to each other on top of a particular letter, you can type that letter
